This next tape is an interview with Charlie Brown, the founder, editor, and publisher
of Locust Magazine.
It took place in the early 1980s.
Okay, the tapes are on. Very informal. I'll let you step.
I want to explore first of all how Locust got started.
So how did you start it and how has it grown and evolved?
Well, I started Locust in 1968.
It started...
One of the main reasons I started was I wanted to be able to learn how to write.
I was a full-time fan. I could never seem to write anybody a letter.
So I decided if I had myself a deadline at that time, it was over two weeks,
I would get some experiences writing, I'll be able to write letters and things like that.
Well, it's 15 years later, I could count right letters.
I'll just put out some magazines.
This mainly evolved from being about fandom.
It was done every other weekend. It was written on Friday.
It's been sent to us on Saturday.
It's been run off and mailed on Sunday.
It was released every other weekend with a gang of people in the house
helping out, things like that. It just kept growing.
The one thing about a magazine is if you keep putting out issues,
you get more and more news.
And gradually it changed over towards more towards the professional side.
Mainly because that's where my interests were.
They were the people who responded more often than I thought.
I'm actually at a crucial point where I couldn't print it anymore.
We went to professional printing and it's been growing ever since.
It's brought the laser short novel now, started out as a young age.
So that's how it grew.
Did you ever in your wildest dreams imagine that it would get as big
circulation-wise and production-wise as it is?
Well, no. It originally started out to only run for two years.
One of the other things that started out was that this was very
an advertisement for the Boston Group.
We were bidding for well-time.
I just wrote the original and the Boston Group put it out
but that didn't work very well.
And at the end of two years they didn't win the convention.
I think mainly because it was well-pitched.
But then we discovered that we were being nominated for a year ago.
It seemed like it would be interesting to run it right through the Boston Convention
and try and win a year ago.
Which we did and after that we just never stopped.
But I never imagined it would grow that much.
Where did the name come from?
The name came from various points, various things.
The locus is the connecting point in a circle.
We considered ourselves the connecting point to the science fiction,
to the science fiction, to the professional fans and publishers.
And the other thing was just from the old Spanish phrase of LOC,
to letter of comment.
And that's why the letter called the still-called locus to the capital of LOC.
Okay, I didn't know that.
Hey, that's nothing new.
You started out as a fan.
So you were obviously involved in a fan organization.
How did you get interested in science fiction in the first place?
I started reading science, I was reading a sound ring in the 40s.
And I started to sound them all around 1949.
You are finding the conventions listed in one of these magazines,
they were super science stories or something like that.
And they listed the 1950s convention.
I was 12 years old and I went to this convention.
I had a wonderful time and I met all these old men,
like Fred Cole and Buster Del Rey, they were old.
Most of them were pushing 30.
And when you're 12, you don't think anybody's ever going to reach a 30.
And it's really up there.
Now it's frightening because I met two other people
and they're considered the same age group.
But that was how I discovered fandom.
And I put out my first fan scene about 1951.
Dropped out again when I was in college,
things like that, eventually went back to it, at least 50.
Next?
How has fandom changed since those days?
Well, there were women around that time.
1950 was when I was simply 13-year-old kid and I was right there.
I was talking to Harold Ellison today and he said,
the one thing he just came back from Australia,
he's just a minor at the Australian convention,
it's just like this, an American fandom in the 50s.
There were all these simply 16-year-old kids and there were no women.
And they were all very sincere, very bright, and very socially inept.
Which was pretty well-planned and was my success.
You were at Locust Poll, the results likely seem to be showing
that science fiction fans, at least the ones that answer polls, are getting older.
Does this indicate some kind of trend, do you think, in the people that read science fiction?
I don't know.
Our audience is always going to be cutting older.
Man, it is just the audience that stayed with us.
About 80% of the people who read Locust in 1968 still read Locust.
Which of course keeps raising the ages.
There are some new people, but not that many.
One of the changes of course is in the magazine.
The magazine is going on to aim at a teenage fan.
They aim at the professional.
And of course it is immediately attracting older professionals.
I think there are probably no more than two or three professionals who are not going to be able to do that.
This must make you feel a pretty strong sense of responsibility then.
Oh, I don't know what you mean by a sense of responsibility.
You are the leading news magazine.
During your living, what I used to do for nothing, that's about it.
What would you be doing if you weren't making a living on Locust?
Where would you be right now?
I spent 15 years in electrical engineering.
Designing power plants and things like that.
I was a full-time engineer up until about six or seven years ago.
So you finally got the wherewithal that it takes to jump out and just do this for full-time then?
Well, we never have done it full-time.
What happened was there was a strong break in the engineering field on 9-17-5.
I got laid off for the first time in my life.
I figured while I was waiting for the field to pick up again, I would try writing for the year.
But I did.
I wrote mostly nonfiction articles from magazines.
I had to focus on the side and try to fill it up as much as possible.
Eventually I discovered I didn't even have to go back to work.
Every once in a while I get a call for an engineering job.
I feel very good about that, but I have no intention of ever going back to it.
Have you ever had any aspirations or tried to write science fiction?
Not fiction. No. I've never had any interest in writing fiction.
I've written a lot of nonfiction. I've written a lot of text books. That's about it.
Now that you've added focus full-time and it is a science fiction magazine,
do you get to actually read science fiction very much?
Oh, yeah. I've read...
Probably I've read half of the novels that are coming out next fall.
I read a lot of science fiction.
I read a lot more mysteries, but I read a lot of science fiction too.
There seem to be other magazines that are springing up,
which I guess are competitors although I don't really see them competing.
But do you think this is good for the field pretty much to have more than one point of view?
Yeah, it doesn't really bother me at all.
In fact, it's helped.
I assume you're talking about science fiction chronicle and these photos.
Since he started, my speculation has gone way up.
He's interested in more people in the field.
Okay.
I assume that you still get a kick out of producing locusts.
There's something that just makes you want to keep doing it besides that it makes your living right now.
Oh, sure.
I was looking at the Blue Lines, the new issue today.
It's very exciting.
The first time you see it come together, see all the photographs together,
and all the stories in one place instead of in pieces.
And you still get a real thrill when you pull that first copy.
I'll get my final copy tomorrow.
I'll be down at the printer 8.30 in the morning watching the team run off.
I'll pull out a copy myself, tape it together, and then I'll have another copy.
In your editorial, you generally acknowledge the help of people that help mail it or collate it or whatever.
Could you give us kind of a typical day where that takes place?
It sounds like you have a big party and put locusts together and get it out.
Oh, yeah, we do have a party.
The people who come over to collate it look like they're not collating, they're mailing notes.
And we get the issue back from the printer in the afternoon and one or two people may show up
and help us put stamps on first-class copies.
And then a larger crowd comes in the evening.
They either get to get dinner and sit around and drink and put out the little labels
or things and put them outside the order.
And now it's a chronological order by Zip Code and they're stacked up then.
And usually we finish by about 10.30 or 11.
Everybody sits around and talks about science fiction.
Very few of the people are of what you would call fans.
They're almost all writers.
In fact, we had a con cast last year for the best first novel by a locust co-liver.
We did have three nominees.
As far as I can tell, probably about 90% of the locusts collated are written at least one novel.
Do you have any...
Not a fan gallery, much professional gallery.
Do you have any plans for locusts, things you'd like to do in the future, expand it, new areas, whatever?
Actually, I'd like to do the opposite.
I do not want to expand the magazine at all.
It will expand anyway, it always does.
But I have no interest in doing them with a bigger magazine.
In fact, I find the magazine too big now and take the relation too far.
I really want to do a magazine for a limited number of people where I can do it all myself at home.
I'm very frightened about getting to the point where I need a large staff and an office and things like that.
Everything's done at home right now.
Some of the changes are always forced on us because there's more news that we feel we have to cover.
As you probably noticed, we're doing a lot more international coverage lately.
We're covering the Soviet Union and the European Convention.
And we've had some articles about Chinese science.
Again?
And I'm off to China next week to explore and I'll be at the University of Shanghai to discuss what's going on there.
Lucas has won countless awards.
Does one become Boise about four?
Two, three, four, five, six, seven.
Seven dollars, countless.
Did you get Boise about that?
No, it's just another award.
I don't know what you're doing in college.
Well, but I don't get tired of winning.
I'm not a throttle spot.
There have been complaints, but then I get a bother to do it.
I solved the problem of complaints.
I send Rachel up to pick them up every year.
But I won't say anything wrong.
As long as people vote to local, I'll gladly accept the Ugo.
It's well deserved.
I don't think anybody realistically other than competitors are going to complain.
Well, I think it's more of a team effort than it was before.
I could not put it out without people helping.
And I appreciate that too.
The one change that was happening with Lucas, unfortunately, is the one that seems to happen every year, which is the price for that.
One of the things we do is, of course, we only got pages when we raised the price.
But the problem with all the presses is what they're expensive to do.
The engineer asked me to ask you when we were talking about fandom a while ago if you have any favorite fandom stories that you could relate, something that's funny or whatever that sticks in your mind from those days.
I don't know if that was one of them, but I don't know what's appropriate.
It was mostly my fandom of 1950.
My fandom's period was about 1950 to 56.
I don't know.
Millions of other elements in the 1950s and the Civil War to the 1950s.
And we're just together there.
What I find interesting is that I've known these people now for more than 30 years.
More than I've known my family.
I'm in close contact with the science fiction group in 1950 that I have with my relatives.
Funny stories?
I don't know.
No, I can't really think of a funny story.
Okay, you have to ask, has Locust generated any letters of note through the years?
You must get some crackpot or oddball letters.
Oh, you know, you crackpot letters all the time and really strange letters and they usually throw them out.
The years they've collected all these really far outlaid letters, waiting to publish them in a final issue.
But it doesn't look like the other key of final issues, Locust.
So there's no reason to keep them around anymore.
We don't get that much mail on Locust.
Mostly information, some complaints, but mostly state information.
Very few letters of praise except for 15th anniversary, actually, we'll see all of the people who were some survivors in the region.
Also, all of them were professional writers.
And it was very nice getting back the first letter from Robert Heinlein and the second letter from Isaac Lassner and people like that,
who are all our fans and we really appreciate what we're doing.
I'll give you a tip that can not be punished as well, but the next issue is well-cooked.
For those interested, Robert Heinlein just finished a new novel and turned it in and it's not a new novel.
That would be lovely.
You must have an interesting pipeline to the publishers.
It seems to me I've heard apocryphal stories that authors said that they read about their new book being published in Locust.
That's not apocryphal, that happens fairly often.
How is that arranged?
Before they send out the publishers to Locust, we've closed contact with all the publishers.
Okay, we will take the show and cut it up and we'll probably do the taping in September and we'll send you a copy of it.
So we do appreciate you getting to talk to you, David.
Okay, I hope I answered your question.
Oh yeah, just a second.
Okay, listen, thanks a lot. Enjoy the pork.